
****************************************************************
* Release notes for libGLES_CM.dll, version 0.258 (pre-alpha). *
****************************************************************

---------------
 Installation:
---------------

Simply put libGLES_CM.zip into \Windows folder on your device or install 
OpenGLESv1.cab.

Note:
    Don't forget to switch your device to HIGH performance mode or plug a 
charge adapter otherwise you won't get any decent performance.

----------------
 Compatibility:
----------------

What works:

    * glBenchmark 1.0/1.1
    * Xtrakt (my biggest success yet!)
    * Tower Defense
    * HG Engine (Hologram App) and HG Proton [reported by daskalos]
    * TouchFlo3D v1.3
    * Opera Mobile 9.7
    * Experiment 13
    * Flight Commander
    * 10 Games for Betting

Known issues:

    * glBenchmark hangs after 10-13 tests, don't know why. So, if you want to 
benchmark, do it in 3-4 runs. Also, 'Flat' shading mode doesn't work, 
everything renders as 'Smooth'.
    * Xtrakt has some minor texturing issues (as you may see on fonts) due to 
the unsupported 1024x1024 texture resolution. Although it's perfectly 
playable.
    * Some alpha-blensing issues with Spb Mobile Shell, NFS: Undercover, 10 
Games for Betting and Call of Duty 2.

What does NOT work:

    * Spb Mobile Shell 3.5. Although you may switch acceleration on by 
registry at [HKLM\Software\Spb Software House 2\Spb Mobile Shell\Gl\], 
setting GlEnabed to 1, but it is really unusable: you can't tap on a panel or 
a message to select it, you can only swipe to rotate carousel. I don't really 
care, because Spb wants to add GL2 support in the nearest future.
    * NFS: Undercover. Almost worked for some time, but used to hang or crash 
randomly, and now it won't start at all. Again, I don't really care, as there 
will be NFS in Samsung's AppStore.
    * Tons of GL apps.

Remember, I DON'T want to know about apps that DOESN'T work.
What I DO want to know about, is if anything else apart from 
glBenchmark/Xtrakt DOES work. That would really be a surprise!

Bonus (for Samsung representatives if any). A short list of some stupid bugs 
found in Samsung's driver during my work on this project:

    * eglGetDisplay(0) fails. It should work with a zero argument, by 
standard, but it fails.
    * Calling glGetString() before eglInitialize(), crashes.
    * eglGetConfigs with config_size = 4096 crashes.
    * glBindBuffer generates GL_OUT_OF_MEMORY if buffer number is above 100 
(it is an actual limit hard-wired into libGLESv2, I had to re-implement the 
whole buffer management by myself). And, Xtrakt needs 102 buffers...
    * glGetIntegerv(GL_MAX_TEXTURE_UNITS) returns 0 instead of 2. This one 
totally breaks NFS.
    * glGetIntegerv(GL_MAX_TEXTURE_SIZE) returns 2048. In reality, every 
texture larger than 512x512 is going to be ignored at all, with some 
allocaton errors in debugger output. It may be used with S3TC, but it's DXT1 
only, not even DXT5. And, somehow, with a GL_RGBA_S3TC_OES format, an alpha 
bit is ignored at all.
    * And don't forget to create mipmaps, or GL_*_MIPMAP_* won't draw 
anything at all (it should just use the only level available)!
    * glAlphaFuncEXP is not iplemented in libGLESv2 (though the hardware DOES 
have this available), had to do a hack for this to work.
    * glViewport works wrong after all. If the parameters, e.g. X and Width 
have a larger sum than the width of the window surface, then the resulting 
width is clamped, which results in scaled down rendering. It may be seen on 
TouchFLO 3D's clock with the v0.204 build of compatibility layer.
    * eglCreateWindowSurface is a fail: it doesn't track window size change 
at all, so if you create a surface and change window size, your output will 
be of an inadequate size (e.g., in Opera 9.7 going from Widowed mode to 
Fullscreen, or in anything else when going from Landscape to Portrait mode).
    * eglSwapBuffers is slow as hell (probably because of plain BitBlt it 
uses), it takes about 10 ms, which limits fps to about 100 and reduces the 
speed of everything else (e.g., you'll get 16 fps where you could have 20, 
only because of this functon).
    * All textures have an offset by half-texel. This is probably done for 
mapping to the nearest texel (like, round(u + 0.5)), but it breaks everything 
that is drawn, for example, with glOrtho (like Opera 9.7). Well, not exactly 
breaks, but akes everything look "smoothed out".

------------------
 Release history:
------------------

 Version 0.258 (Nov 29, 2009)

  Yet another minor update:
    * adds PVRTC support (not sure if it gives anything useful, but let it 
be: maybe some game for Dell Axim will finally work, maybe not);
    * fixes minor ambient lighting issue (as seen in TestOpenGL's donut test; 
BTW, I'm proud to say that my lib works FASTER in TestOpenGL than HD2 does, 
although with minor issues!);
    * removes matrix palette from extensions list (so that glBenchmark 1.1 
wouldn't hang);
    * and fixes a crash on MindPol's Coin game from their 10 Games for 
Betting.

  I'd say, the latter game is the only reason why anyone would want to 
update.

------------------------------
 Version 0.257 (Nov 20, 2009)

  Following games are now supported:
    * Flight Commander
    * Experiment 13

------------------------------
 Version 0.256 (Nov 14, 2009)

  A minor yet highly recommended update!
  Introduced a minus half-texel offset for every texture coordinate that 
libgles renders (yet another Samsung's bug).
  The difference, now, is huge. First thing you'll probably notice, is a 
perfect (pixel-wise) Opera 9.7 rendering.
  Second, some of the irritating lines in Xtrakt are gone as well.
  Third, Tower Defense gets a tiny bit more clear and sharp look.

-----------------------------
 Version 0.250 (Nov 2, 2009)

  Faster, smaller, better. That is:
    * It does QTC texture decompression more quickly, so Xtrakt loads a tad 
faster, and lags in TF3D were reduced (though haven't gone completely).
    * It has a smaller footprint, so Acer M900 users should be able to run 
Xtrakt now.
    * It allows to run an original unmodified TouchFLO 3D 1.3 (fixes yet 
another Samsung's bug, this time in glViewport). Maybe it can do even more, 
but that was not tested. smile.gif
    * CFC 0.60 fully supported.

  Though, if you want TF3D, I strongly advise you to use Chainfire's package 
with recompressed textures, as they have better quality, the package itself 
is significantly smaller and it runs much faster.

----------------------------
 Version 0.2 (Sep 24, 2009)

    * Initial release


